### 3.1.0

_Released 2016 Oct 30_

This build includes the following changes:

#### Bindings

- Bindings have been split into modules and are available as separate artifacts. (#100)
    * The [download configurator](https://www.lwjgl.org/download) on the website can be used to customize LWJGL builds and Maven/Gradle projects.
- Added [LMDB](http://lmdb.tech/doc/) bindings.
- Added [Nuklear](https://github.com/vurtun/nuklear) bindings. (#101)
- Added [Tiny File Dialogs](https://sourceforge.net/projects/tinyfiledialogs/) bindings.
- Added [bgfx](https://github.com/bkaradzic/bgfx) bindings. (#240)
- Added support for new EGL, OpenCL, OpenGL, OpenGL ES and Vulkan extensions.
- Updated all bindings to latest versions.
- Vulkan javadoc is now almost identical to the Vulkan man pages, with links to the online Vulkan specification.

#### Improvements

- Generator: Removed buffer object binding checks. (#197)
- Generator: Added support for mapping `byte/short` parameters to `int`.
- Generator: Added support for `va_list` parameters.
- Generator: Reduced bytecode size of generated methods.
- Generator: The Vulkan bindings are now [automatically generated](https://github.com/LWJGL/lwjgl3-vulkangen).
- Optimized `strlen` methods used internally by LWJGL.
- Optimized misaligned `memSet` and `memCopy`.
- Added support for stack allocations with custom alignment.
- Removed allocation functionality from read-only, externally managed structs.
- Improved library loading diagnostics and added `Configuration.DEBUG_LOADER` option.
- Libraries extracted by the `SharedLibraryLoader` are now locked to avoid conflicts with other processes (e.g. antivirus software). (#225)
- Simplified javadoc of unsafe versions.

#### Fixes

- Callback instances are now tracked when the `DEBUG_MEMORY_ALLOCATOR` option is enabled.
- Fixed `realloc` tracking in the debug allocator.
- Shared libraries that ship with LWJGL are now always preferred over system libraries.
- Fixed return type of functions that return pointer to boolean.
- stb_image: Fixed result auto-sizing of `stbi_load*` functions.
- Functions that deallocate memory no longer have Java array overloads.
- Fixed `memSet` bugs.
- Fixed Java array overload generation for functions with multiple auto-size-result parameters.
- Fixed custom checks in Java array overloads.
- Fixed lookup of Critical JNI natives on Windows x86.
- Disabled Critical JNI natives for functions affected by JDK-8167409 on Linux & MacOS.

#### Breaking Changes

- xxHash: Added support for stack allocation of streaming hash state. Opaque handles have been replaced by the `XXH*State` structs.
- NanoVG: Dropped version suffixes from NanoVGGL classes.
- Mapped more integer parameters and return values to Java booleans, that were missed while working on #181.
- Dropped VKUtil class and moved the version macros to VK10.