### 3.1.7

_Not Released Yet_

This build includes the following changes:

#### Bindings

- Added [Vulkan Memory Allocator](https://github.com/GPUOpen-LibrariesAndSDKs/VulkanMemoryAllocator) bindings.
- bgfx: Updated to API version 67 (up from 60)
    * `bgfx_init` now accepts a parameter structure instead of arguments.
- glfw: Updated to pre-release 3.3.0 version (up from 3.3.0 pre-release):
    * Added support for gamepad mapping input modifiers (SDL 2.0.6+ format)
- dyncall: Updated to revision 275 (up from 241)
- jemalloc: Update to 5.1.0 (up from 5.0.1)
- lz4: Updated to 1.8.2 (up from 1.8.1)
- LibOVR: Updated to 1.25.0 (up from 1.20.0) 
- Nuklear: Updated to 4.00.1 (up from 3.00.2)
- OpenVR: Updated to 1.0.15 (up from 1.0.12)
- rpmalloc: Updated to 1.3.1 (up from 1.2.2)
- stb
    * Updated `stb_image` to 2.19 (up from 2.18)
    * Updated `stb_image_write` to 1.09 (up from 1.08)
    * Updated `stb_truetype` to 1.19 (up from 1.18)
    * Updated `stb_vorbis` to 1.14 (up from 1.13b)
- tinyfiledialogs: Updated to 3.3.5 (up from 3.2.9)
- Vulkan: Updated to 1.1.76 (up from 1.0.68)
- xxhash: Update to 0.6.5 (up from 0.6.4)
- Yoga: Updated to 1.8.0 (up from 1.7.1)

#### Improvements

- perf(core): `memGetAddress`/`memPutAddress` are now an order of magnitude faster on 32-bit JVMs.
- perf(core): Optimized pointer arithmetic by helping the JVM identify unsigned integers.
- perf(core): The new `java.util.Objects` index check intrinsics are used on Java 9.
- perf(core): `MemoryUtil` string decoding methods are now faster on both Java 8 and 9+.
    * The Java 9 implementations are tuned for compact strings ([JEP 254](http://openjdk.java.net/jeps/254)).
- perf(generator):  Function pointers in capabilities classes are not sorted by name anymore.
    * This makes it more likely that for functions that are commonly used together, their respective pointers
    will be closer in memory, avoiding unnecessary cache misses.
- Generator: `org.lwjgl.system.JNI` now includes signatures for known callback functions.
    * Can be used for callback function delegation.
- Generator: Added support for custom methods in struct classes.
- Generator: Added fluent setters for nested structs.
- Generator: Made StructBuffer subclass generation optional.
- Loader: Now prints the path of shared libraries loaded from system paths in debug mode, when possible.
- docs(core): Improved `PointerBuffer` javadoc.
- Core: The debug allocator now also tracks internal allocations of shared libraries that have been configured to use the LWJGL memory allocator.
    * This enables monitoring/debugging allocations inside shared libraries. Internal resources that are never released are now reported on shutdown.
    * Enabled by default when `Configuration.DEBUG_MEMORY_ALLOCATOR` is enabled.
    * May be disabled with `Configuration.DEBUG_MEMORY_ALLOCATOR_INTERNAL.set(false)`. 
- LMDB: The LWJGL memory allocator is now used for internal allocations.
- NanoVG/NanoSVG: The LWJGL memory allocator is now used for internal allocations.

#### Fixes

- Generator: Fixed nullability of macro bindings.
- Generator: Fixed location of generated static blocks
- macOS: Fixed version number detection in `.dylib` name mapping
- Nullability fixes in:
    * Assimp
    * CGL
    * Yoga
    * Parameters of struct multi-setter methods
- OpenCL: Fixed `CL_DEVICE_PREFERRED_VECTOR_WIDTH_INT` constant name.

#### Breaking Changes

- Core: `MemoryUtil.MemoryAllocationReport` now also returns the address of the memory allocation.
- NanoVG: Parameters `windowWidth`/`windowHeight` of the `nvgBeginFrame` function changed to `float`.