### 3.4.0

_Not Released Yet_

This build includes the following changes:

#### Bindings

- Added [RenderDoc](https://renderdoc.org) bindings.
- Added [SDL 3](https://libsdl.org/) bindings.
- Added [libspng](https://libspng.org/) bindings.
- Assimp: Updated to 6.0.2 (up from 5.4.3)
- bgfx: Updated to API version 136 (up from 129)
- FMOD: Updated to 2.03.11 (up from 2.03.04)
- freetype: Updated to 2.14.1 (up from 2.13.3)
- harfbuzz: Updated to 12.3.0 (up from 10.1.0)
- hwloc: Updated to 2.12.2 (up from 2.11.2)
- KTX: Updated to 4.4.2 (up from 4.3.2)
- libffi: Updated to 3.5.2 (up from 3.4.6)
- liburing: Updated to 2.13 (up from 2.8)
- LLVM/Clang: Updated to 21.1.2 (up from 19.1.0)
- meshoptimizer: Updated to 1.0.0 (up from 0.22)
- msdfgen: Updated to 1.13.0 (up from 1.11.0)
  * Added error correction functions.
  * Added optional `advance` parameter to `msdf_ft_font_load_glyph*`.
  * Replaced `msdf_shape_has_inverse_y_axis` with `msdf_shape_set/get_y_axis_orientation`. 
- Nuklear: Updated to 4.13.0 (up from 4.12.3)
- OpenAL Soft: Updated to 1.25.0 (up from 1.24.1)
  * Added `AL_SOFT_bformat_hoa` extension.
- OpenGL (ES): Added latest extensions.
  * `EXT_fragment_shading_rate`
  * `EXT_mesh_shader`
  * `EXT_shader_realtime_clock`
  * `EXT_shader_texture_samples`
- OpenXR: Updated to 1.1.54 (up from 1.1.43)
- Opus: Updated to 1.6.0 (up from 1.5.2)
- Shaderc: Updated to 2025.5 (up from 2024.4)
  * Added bindings to glslang.
  * Added bindings to SPIRV Tools.
- SPIRV-Cross: Updated to 0.68.0 (up from 0.64.0)
- stb
  * Updated `stb_image_resize` to 2.17 (up from 2.12)
- tinyexr: Updated to 1.0.12 (up from 1.0.8)
- tinyfiledialogs: Updated to 3.19.1 (up from 3.18.1)
- vma: Updated to 3.3.0 (up from 3.2.0)
- Vulkan: Updated to 1.4.338 (up from 1.4.304)
  * Includes MoltenVK 1.4.1 (up from 1.2.11)
- Zstd: Updated to 1.5.7 (up from 1.5.6)

LWJGL bindings no longer include API documentation in javadoc form. What remains: 

- Native struct definitions.
- Native function signatures for downcalls (new in 3.4.0) and upcalls.
- The `package-info` javadoc in each module now also includes links to useful resources, such as: 
  * The official API documentation.
  * The official source repository.
  * Guides, tutorials, SDKs, etc.

LWJGL no longer includes the following bindings:

- `lwjgl-cuda`
- `lwjgl-libdivide`
- `lwjgl-meow`
- `lwjgl-nanovg`: the Blendish and OUI bindings only
- `lwjgl-openvr`
- `lwjgl-ovr`
- `lwjgl-sse`
- `lwjgl-tootle`

#### Improvements

- Core: Added the Runtime Bindings Generator.
  * A preview API, in `org.lwjgl.system.ffm`, that allows users to define and use custom bindings.
  * Based on the Foreign Function & Memory (FFM) and ClassFile APIs (requires JDK 25 or later).
- Core: Added a new backend for downcalls, upcalls and off-heap memory access based on FFM.
  * Enabled by default on JDK 25 or later.
  * LWJGL is now fully functional with `--sun-misc-unsafe-memory-access=deny`.
  * See the [FFM Guide](../FFM.md) for details.
- Core: Added `memCopy` support for Java arrays. (#972)
  * Array to buffer
  * Buffer to array
  * Corresponding unsafe overloads
- FreeBSD: LWJGL now requires FreeBSD 13.5 or later. (up from 13.3)
- Linux: x86_64 shared libraries are now built with GCC 15.1 (up from GCC 11.2)
  * The minimum GLIBC version is now 2.28. (up from 2.17)
- Linux: non-x86_64 shared libraries are now built with GCC 12.3 (up from GCC 11.4)
  * No change to minimum GLIBC version (2.35).
- Windows: Shared libraries are now built with Visual Studio 2026 (up from 2022)

#### Fixes

- Opus: Fixed missing function exports in Windows binaries.
- tinyfiledialogs: Fixed `tinyfd_messageBox` signature to support the `yesnocancel` dialog type.
- Vulkan: Fixed stack OOME on VkInstance creation with recent drivers.
- Vulkan: Fixed support for Vulkan 1.4.

#### Breaking Changes

- Generator: Removed deprecated `mallocStack`/`callocStack` methods from structs.
- OpenCL: Fixed the carrier type of `cl_ulong` constants. (#1087)
  * Now mapped to `long` to avoid unintentional sign extension for negative values.
- Vulkan: MoltenVK on x64 now requires macOS 11.0 or later. (up from 10.13)
