### 3.4.2

_Not Released Yet_

#### Bindings

- Added [mimalloc](https://microsoft.github.io/mimalloc/) bindings.
- Assimp: Updated to 6.0.5 (up from 6.0.3)
- bgfx: Updated to API version 145 (up from 136)
- freetype: Updated to 2.14.3 (up from 2.14.1)
- harfbuzz: Updated to 14.2.1 (up from 12.3.2)
  * Added experimental `harfbuzz-raster` & `harfbuzz-vector` libraries.
  * Added `harfbuzz-gpu` library.
- hwloc: Updated to 2.13.0 (up from 2.12.2)
- jemalloc: Updated to 5.3.1 (up from 5.3.0)
- KTX: Updated to 5.0.0-rc1 (up from 4.4.2)
- libffi: Updated to 3.6.0 (up from 3.5.2)
- LLVM/Clang: Updated to 22.1.5 (up from 21.1.2)
- lmdb: Updated to 0.9.35 (up from 0.9.33)
- liburing: Updated to 2.14 (up from 2.13)
- meshoptimizer: Updated to 1.1.1 (up from 1.0.0)
- Nuklear: Updated to 4.13.3 (up from 4.13.0)
- OpenAL Soft: Updated to 1.25.2 (up from 1.25.1)
- OpenCL: Added support for OpenCL 3.1.
- OpenGL: Added missing APPLE extensions. (#1105)
- OpenXR: Updated to 1.1.60 (up from 1.1.54)
- RenderDoc: Updated to 1.7.0 (up from 1.6.0)
- SDL: Updated to 3.4.12 (up from pre-release 3.4.1)
- Shaderc: Updated to 2026.2 (up from 2026.2)
  * Updated SPIRV Tools to 2026.2.rc1 (up from 2026.1)
- stb
  * Updated `stb_image_resize` to 2.18 (up from 2.17)
- tinyexr: Updated to 3.0.0 (up from 1.0.12)
  * New API that is not compatible with the previous version. 
- vma: Updated to 3.4.0 (up from 3.3.0)
- Vulkan: Updated to 1.4.353 (up from 1.4.342)

#### Fixes

- Core: Struct parameters passed by value to LWJGL 3 callbacks are now supported with the FFM backend. (#1107)
- Core: Upcall allocations with the FFM backend are now tracked when the debug allocator is enabled.
- Freetype: Fixed `FT_LOAD_TARGET_*` constant names. (#1119)
- HarfBuzz: Fixed AAT constant and function names. (#1123)
- SDL: Hid `SDL_DisplayMode::internal`. (#1110)

#### Improvements

- Core: `MemoryUtil` backends are now configurable at runtime. (#1111)
  * See `Configuration::MEMORY_BACKEND` for details.
  * The new default on JDK 25+ is FFM-based downcalls/upcalls and Unsafe-based memory access.
- Core: The default memory allocator is now mimalloc.
  * If available on the class/module-path.
  * First fallback is jemalloc, second fallback is the system allocator.
- Core: New features in the runtime bindings generator.
  * Now supports C `long` types in downcalls/upcalls with the `@FFMCLong` annotation on Java `long` carriers.
  * Now supports nested anonymous structs and unions.
- Core: The `SharedLibraryLoader` now prints exceptions when it is able to extract a library, but not load it. (#1120)
  * Requires `Configuration::DEBUG_LOADER` to be enabled.
- FreeBSD: LWJGL now requires FreeBSD 14.3 or later. (up from 13.5)

#### Breaking changes

- Core: The `MemorySegment` access methods have been moved from `MemoryUtil` to `MemoryUtilFFM`.
- Unsafe accessor methods for private struct members are now package private.